content/modules/ROOT/pages/01-install-leapp.adoc, before:

== What is Leapp?

Red Hat’s leapp tool provides existing Red Hat Enterprise Linux
instances to an upgrade path from one major version to the next. This
can be done on a one-to-one basis or en mass with a tool like Satellite.
The Leapp tooling also includes a pre-upgrade assistant that makes it
easy to identify breaking changes or warn about potential issues before
any lasting changes are made to the system.

Before diving in, the question you have to ask is: is this workload
worth executing a rebuild from scratch? That process can be tedious and
time consuming. Doing an in-place upgrade retains the subscription,
installed packages, user data, and configurations all while saving the
time and resources required to deploy fresh.

== Installing Leapp

To get started, it is highly recommended that you update all packages on
your system to the latest version available.

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf update -y && reboot
----

1. The terminal will lose connection with the rhel 8 host leaving the
message `+Connection to rhel08 closed+`.

2. Click the `reconnect` button until you are reconnected.

.Terminal connection lost
image::rebootandreconnect.png[rebootandreconnect]

Leapp is a supported operation for RHEL which means support tickets can
be opened in case obstacles are encountered. It also means that the
leapp utility is available straight from the Red Hat package repository.
First, verify the version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux that you have
installed:

[source,bash,run]
----
cat /etc/redhat-release
----

Since you are already running a properly registered RHEL machine, you do
not need to enable any additional repositories. Instead, simply use the
DNF package manager to install leapp and its dependencies:

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf install -y leapp-upgrade
----

Verify the install was successful:

[source,bash,run]
----
leapp --version
----

Commit message:

Add serial console image and update Leapp installation instructions to include new image reference and clarify terminal reconnection steps.

content/modules/ROOT/pages/01-install-leapp.adoc, after:

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

== What is Leapp?

Red Hat’s leapp tool provides existing Red Hat Enterprise Linux
instances to an upgrade path from one major version to the next. This
can be done on a one-to-one basis or en mass with a tool like Satellite.
The Leapp tooling also includes a pre-upgrade assistant that makes it
easy to identify breaking changes or warn about potential issues before
any lasting changes are made to the system.

Before diving in, the question you have to ask is: is this workload
worth executing a rebuild from scratch? That process can be tedious and
time consuming. Doing an in-place upgrade retains the subscription,
installed packages, user data, and configurations all while saving the
time and resources required to deploy fresh.

== Installing Leapp

To get started, it is highly recommended that you update all packages on
your system to the latest version available.

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf update -y && reboot
----

. The terminal will lose connection with the rhel 8 host leaving the
message `+Connection to rhel08 closed+`.
. You can watch the system boot up in the serial console by clicking the `Serial console` tab.

.Serial console
image::serialconsole2.png[serialconsole]

[start=3]
. When the reboot has completed, click back on the `terminal` tab.
. Click the `reconnect` button until you are reconnected.

.Terminal connection lost
image::rebootandreconnect.png[rebootandreconnect]

Leapp is a supported operation for RHEL which means support tickets can
be opened in case obstacles are encountered. It also means that the
leapp utility is available straight from the Red Hat package repository.
First, verify the version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux that you have
installed:

[source,bash,run]
----
cat /etc/redhat-release
----

Since you are already running a properly registered RHEL machine, you do
not need to enable any additional repositories. Instead, simply use the
DNF package manager to install leapp and its dependencies:

[source,bash,run]
----
dnf install -y leapp-upgrade
----

Verify the install was successful:

[source,bash,run]
----
leapp --version
----
